  
10. The Atheist (‘I’m a sceptic’)  
  
I don’t believe in fairies. I don’t believe in Santa.  
It’s not that I’m a killjoy. I like sparkle in my Fanta.  
But God! it drives me mad to hear these stupid mystic mantras  
Such mindless nonsense. Worse than Fascist Nazi propaganda.  
At least the Nazis had the sense to organise and plan fo’  
the goals that they believed in. Now please restrain your rancour.  
I don’t condone the things they did. Herr Hitler was a wanker.  
I’m saying you should use your brain. And if you do, she’ll thank yah!  
  
No me, I’m a sceptic. Some would call me cynical.  
But I like some evidence, something that’s empirical.  
I do not think we help ourselves by just invoking Miracle  
to explain what we can’t comprehend—yet!—now that’s the critical  
word that you must not forget! For every single physical  
process that we notice there is progress when we’re clinical  
in the quest to express it all in analytical  
terms that then can be confirmed—without anything ‘spiritual’!  
  
The human mind is the result of billions of years of evolution  
And I believe that we can find billions of powerful solutions  
To the evils that we face as individuals and institutions.  
No matter who you are, humankind needs your contribution.  
  
It is not kind to humankind, to trivialise the human mind.  
Evolution, over time, has remarkably designed  
this miracle machine. But the notion there’s a soul enshrined  
within it, must be nullified. It’s not enough to redefine  
our terms. We have a duty to join in with the search to find  
the fundamental causes that govern matter, space and time.  
We must allow ourselves no rest! We must not let ourselves incline  
to supernatural thinking — for superstition makes us blind.  
  
In weaker moments, I'll admit that I believe in Science.  
But should you call my faith a 'faith' I'll respond with defiance.  
For 'faith' implies humility, and child-like reliance,  
and hoping for a voice to speak, when all there is, is silence!  
And this too often justifies a dull and dumb compliance  
with vested interests, gathered in a self-serving alliance.  
I call the world to join me in my war against these giants!  
Find a weapon! or at least some kitchen applicance!  
  
The human mind is the result of billions of years of evolution  
And I believe that we can find billions of powerful solutions  
To the evils that we face as individuals and institutions.  
No matter who you are, humankind needs your contribution.  
  
  
We’re all asking the question, What‘s it mean to be Human?  
And as a scientist I claim that God’s a delusion.  
Which leaves us with no choice but to believe we’re all mutants  
Like Teenage Ninja Turtles, moulded by evolution.  
Though I realise the atheist gives no resolution  
to existential problems of moral confusion.  
It’s true that Christ’s self-sacrifice is a neat solution:  
Love wins by sacrificial self-substitution.  
  
Just because it’s neat, it doesn’t mean it’s not mythology.  
Evidence is king in all fair epistemology.  
And if I were to convert to orthodox Christology  
I’d have to have some answers to some questions that still bother me.  
Israel’s archaeology, and biblical chronology,  
and, I’m sure you’ve guessed!, evolutionary biology  
and what implications are there for developing technology?  
And can we then attempt a fundamental anthropology?  
  
The human mind is the result of billions of years of evolution  
And I believe that we can find billions of powerful solutions  
To the evils that we face as individuals and institutions.  
No matter who you are, humankind needs your contribution.  
  
