  
11. My Redeemer Lives  
  
Don’t poke me with your pitchfork! Don’t prick me with its prongs!  
And watch detached and cold while I lament, ‘O Lord, how long?’  
You say my cursing flow of words is obstinate, headstrong.  
But I’m enslaved in Babylon, I can’t sing Zion’s song!  
So much of what you say is true—but your premises are wrong!  
Which turns your words into a blacksmith’s anvil, hammer and tongs.  
But I embrace the process, I just hope God won’t prolong  
this journey to the heavens. Suffering’s made me Neil Armstrong.  
  
If morality were essentially an individual’s responsibility  
then the moralist, Christian or otherwise, would be correct  
Or if transcendent personality were a myth, and not reality  
then the Buddhist diagnosis is the most honest yet.  
Or if reality were no more than what we analyse and record  
then the atheist’s ambition would be bold and even brave  
But I believe in a Redeemer, who I believe must have a scheme t’  
somehow save me from this suffering, and raise me from the grave.  
  
And I know that my Redeemer lives…  
  
Now we all know that for the Christian, suffering is Assured—  
Christ died for us, but he promised we too would endure  
evil and affliction, and through it we’d be Blessed!  
and if we persevered through pain, we’d be a Catalyst.  
If we could only grasp this, then—without being trite—  
our suffering would be transformed to startling Delight!  
But I never expected this to be such an Eye-opener  
for the first time, I see clearly, I’m soaring through the open air!  
  
I think the Lord is giving me an insight to the Trinity  
a question that’s been puzzling me all my life long.  
Theologians call it mystery, which one might say cynically  
means that really they don’t understand what’s going on.  
Since Love means an affinity for one distinct from one’s identity  
then as far as God’s essence goes, of Love there can be none.  
Unless! in God’s divinity, unchanging from infinity  
God’s essence is th’eternal Love of a Father for a Son.  
  
And I know that my Redeemer lives…  
  
So wait for this! It’s sensational! You gotta hear this truth! It’s inspirational  
Listen closely kids, this’ educational! The nature of reality’s relational!  
The cynics say that we are all incapable of understanding; or it’s inexplainable  
But I’m claiming that it is obtainable: the ultimate underlying equation of  
fundamental reality is traceable, to a God who speaks, He’s conversational.  
This could heal all the denominational divisions, and reform organizational  
systems that we thought were unassailable. It’s time to get confrontational  
and make the gospel of grace inescapable. RSVP to the invitation, y’all!  
